---
layout: bare
title: FAQ - Frequently Asked Questions
---

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->


- [ABOUT OUR SERVICES ](#about-our-services)
  - [What is the fee that you charge for the currency exchange?](#what-is-the-fee-that-you-charge-for-the-currency-exchange)
  - [Is this app legal?](#is-this-app-legal)
  - [Do you offer online transfers?](#do-you-offer-online-transfers)
  - [Why should I use Plain Exchange instead of the bank or currency exchange cabinet?](#why-should-i-use-plain-exchange-instead-of-the-bank-or-currency-exchange-cabinet)
  - [Can I use Plain Exchange if I am not a student from HKUST/HKU?](#can-i-use-plain-exchange-if-i-am-not-a-student-from-hkusthku)
- [THE CURRENCY EXCHANGE PROCESS ](#the-currency-exchange-process)
  - [How does the exchange take place?](#how-does-the-exchange-take-place)
  - [What if the amounts offered on the system are less than or more than I need?](#what-if-the-amounts-offered-on-the-system-are-less-than-or-more-than-i-need)
  - [How do you set the market rate?](#how-do-you-set-the-market-rate)
  - [What to do if I need the money urgently?](#what-to-do-if-i-need-the-money-urgently)
  - [How will I know that someone is interested in my offer?](#how-will-i-know-that-someone-is-interested-in-my-offer)
  - [What to do if I made an offer but changed my mind afterwards?](#what-to-do-if-i-made-an-offer-but-changed-my-mind-afterwards)
- [SAFETY MATTERS ](#safety-matters)
  - [What are "Save Spots"?](#what-are-save-spots)
  - [How do I know I’m chatting with a real person?](#how-do-i-know-i%E2%80%99m-chatting-with-a-real-person)
  - [What happens if the user did not show up for the agreed meeting?](#what-happens-if-the-user-did-not-show-up-for-the-agreed-meeting)
  - [What happens if I get mistreated or cheated during the money exchange process?](#what-happens-if-i-get-mistreated-or-cheated-during-the-money-exchange-process)
  - [How can I know that the money provided by the other user is real?](#how-can-i-know-that-the-money-provided-by-the-other-user-is-real)
- [CURRENCY GUIDELINES](#currency-guidelines)
  - [HONG KONG (HKD)](#hong-kong-hkd)
  - [UNITED STATES (USD)](#united-states-usd)
  - [CHINA (RMB/CNY)](#china-rmbcny)
  - [UNITED KINGDOM (GBP)](#united-kingdom-gbp)
  - [EUROZONE (EUR)](#eurozone-eur)
  - [INDIA (INR)](#india-inr)
  - [INDONESIA (IDR)](#indonesia-idr)
  - [SINGAPORE (SGD)](#singapore-sgd)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

ABOUT OUR SERVICES 
------------------

### What is the fee that you charge for the currency exchange?

Using Plain Exchange is free! We provide you with the information of
who has the currency that you need, rather than the money itself. This
is why we are able to eliminate the role of the middleman, which is
played by banks and currency cabinets in the current system, who
charge commission as a result of an advantage they have - they are
your only source of foreign currency. We believe that is is
unnecessary, because they currency you need might be lying around with
fellow students, on campus. By giving you information about
alternative sources of currency, we want to give you more control over
travel costs and gradually democratize the process of currency
exchange.

### Is this app legal?

Yes! Take a look at this excerpt from the HKSAR law: 
>
"exchange transaction" (兌換交易) means a transaction between a money
changer and another person relating to the exchange of different
currencies”
Source: [Chapter 34, Section 2: Money Changers Ordinance, check out at http://bit.ly/1Mvz4S4 ]

We made sure it is in line with the law long before we launched. Plain
Exchange is not a currency exchange service but rather a platform
which provides information instead of money. Our job is to connect
people with offsetting needs and facilitate their exchange process by
providing a chat function to communicate through and set the time and
place of exchange. Just get started - it’s legal :)

### Do you offer online transfers?

No, we only focus on cash transactions right now, just as it is
traditionally, but without additional costs.

### Why should I use Plain Exchange instead of the bank or currency exchange cabinet?

No commission costs are of course the biggest advantage and we do it
by creating one place where users can provide information about the
amount of different currencies they have and wish to exchange. Our
goal is to create win-win situations rather than “win the commission -
pay unfair exchange rate” situations that all of us have to deal with
now. Take a look at this simple comparison we prepared to show where
we want to build our advantage.

#### Commission

*Bank:* On average, you lose from 1-10% on bank rates adopted by banks in Hong Kong, depending on the popularity of the currency<sup>1</sup>

*Exchange Cabinet*: the level depends on location but is usually between 5%to even 20% above market rate

**Plain Exchange: 0%**

#### Operating times

*Bank:* On campus: 9am-5pm, Monday - Friday <br />*On-campus banks offer limited currencies so in reality a trip to bank’s headquarters is necessary

*Exchange Cabinet*: Depending on location, usually closes around 8 pm in Chunking Mansions

**Plain Exchange: On Campus: 24/7**

#### Additional Cost

*Bank:* 50HKD<sup>2</sup> per transaction under 3,000HKD if you do not have an account with the bank

*Exchange Cabinet*: Cost of transport: 18-30HKD for off-campus locations<br />Value of time spent on looking for good rates | None, unless you choose to pick an off-campus location

**Plain Exchange: On Campus: None, unless you choose to pick an off-campus location**

<sup>1</sup> Based on our study of currency exchange rates, as compared to market rate on 19/12/2015, based on Hang Seng Bank, Standard Chartered, HSBC, Bank of China <br />
<sup>2</sup> https://bank.hangseng.com/1/PA_1_2_S5/content/pws/personal/servicecharges/pdfs/tariff(E)_dec.pdf 

### Can I use Plain Exchange if I am not a student from HKUST/HKU? 

Currently, we are only available to students in HKUST and HKU as a
part of our pilot testing but we are constantly working to improve the
functions of our application and we hope to be launching to the whole
travellers market as soon as possible.

THE CURRENCY EXCHANGE PROCESS 
-----------------------------

### How does the exchange take place?
Just follow these four simple steps: 

1. Download the app and create an account. Fill in the basic
information in your profile, so that other users are more willing to
exchange money with you.

2. Log in and use our search bar to find offerings which match your
needs. If you find an interesting offer, click it in the list to
access details like e.g. who offers it and in which location.

3. Click the button at the bottom of the page which will take you to
the chat window where you can directly contact the user who posted the
offer.

4. Start with a "Hi", express your interest in the exchange and agree
on the place and time where you can meet and seal the deal.

Tip: Make sure that time and place are convenient for both the sides
and always opt for public, monitored spots (See more in the section "Safety").


### What if the amounts offered on the system are less than or more than I need?

This situation can always happen and you can think about it as an
opportunity cost of the fact that we do not charge commission - it
will almost never be exactly how much you had in mind! However, the
same situation happens when we visit different exchange cabinets and
we see the rates that they offer first and then decide how much we
will exchange. On Plain Exchange everything is transparent and online
so we encourage you to be willing to adjust up or down a little,
because all offers are at the market rate already, so it is the best
deal you can get :) If there is nothing closely related to the amount
you need, or you simply have a leftover currency which you want to
offer on the system, this is when you become a currency
offerer. Simply click “Make an offer” button and fill in all the
details. (See also: 10. How will I know that someone is interested in
my offer? )

### How do you set the market rate? 

We update the exchange rate on a daily basis, based on the rates
sourced from Yahoo Finance. In general, the daily fluctuations are
negligible, however, we will inform you about an occasional
volatility, by displaying an alert sign when the day-to-day
fluctuation exceed 5%.

### What to do if I need the money urgently? 

Simply set the expiry date to the latest date that you need the money
by!

### How will I know that someone is interested in my offer? 

When someone chats your offer we will send you a notification through
our app - as long as you are logged in, you will instantly see it and
be able to respond to them quickly. In case you are logged out, you
can also enable the option which will also send you an email to the
address linked with your account, to make sure you do not miss out on
the exchange deal. To enable or disable these functions please go to
the Menu > Settings > Notifications.

### What to do if I made an offer but changed my mind afterwards? 

You can always remove an offer from the system if you do not have the
money which you initially offered anymore. Simply go to the menu in
the left, upper corner and click “My offers”. There, you can remove
the offer from the system.  Tip: If you were already chatting about
this offer with someone else, please make sure that you inform them
about your need to remove the offer first, in order not to make them
wait in vain.

SAFETY MATTERS 
--------------

### What are "Save Spots"?

Safe spots is a suggested list of places on your campus, which we
picked to make money exchange easier, especially for the first time
users of Plain Exchange. Even though our users have not experienced
any unsafe situations so far, it is still better to be precautious and
meet in public places, with monitoring or security guards. You will
see the list of the safe spots in the neighbourhood of your location
in the top of your and other user’s chat window, so you can just refer
to one of them when agreeing on the place of exchange. Check them out
below!

![Map of recommended spots in HKUST](http://mindworker.github.io/plainX-pages/md-img/ustMap.png)

### How do I know I’m chatting with a real person?

In order to become the user of Plain Exchange, everyone needs to
provide us with the university e-mail, which we verify and only grant
the ability to post offers on the system if the e-mail is matched with
a real university account.
 
### What happens if the user did not show up for the agreed meeting?

There could be many reasons for why someone did not show up. Don’t
worry! Use the in-app chat to contact that person again and ask them
what happened. In case there is no response, please email us at
info@plainexchange.xyz and let us know their username and the offer
details. We will take care of checking up on the user and take action
if we find out any problems with their credibility.

### What happens if I get mistreated or cheated during the money exchange process? 

Even though we are only a platform to connect people of similar needs,
we want to make sure we also do everything we can to ensure your
safety during the meeting with other users. If you encounter any
disturbing behaviour, please contact us as soon as possible at
info@plainexchange.xyz or in case of urgent inquiry, use our 24-hour
infoline.

### How can I know that the money provided by the other user is real? 

It is safe to assume that if someone wants to trade counterfeit money,
a public platform would not be their first choice, but of course, such
possibility cannot be excluded.This is why we have created simple
guides to check whether the currency you have is real, which we will
make available to you when you carry out a transaction using Plain
Exchange. You can also simply google a query: “How to check if the
money is real [country or currency name]” and you can find many tips
from banks or enthusiasts on what are the telltale signs of currency
credibility, before you meet up with the other user.

Important: If you discover the money is counterfeit after the exchange
takes place, contact us at info@plainexchange.xyz .

CURRENCY GUIDELINES
-------------------

Here are some additional references to check the credibility of the
most popular currencies traded in Hong Kong:

### HONG KONG (HKD)
Official HKMA guidelines:  http://bit.ly/1motbw6

### UNITED STATES (USD)

Instructables guide: http://bit.ly/1NqdvRW 

Wikihow: http://bit.ly/1mot7fO 

### CHINA (RMB/CNY)
Guide from currencyguide.com: http://bit.ly/1P7BzJK 

### UNITED KINGDOM (GBP)

Bank of England: http://bit.ly/1Rp7oBb

The Guardian: http://bit.ly/1QsPU6Q

### EUROZONE (EUR)

Guide from ECB: http://bit.ly/1k3jXDK

Wikihow: http://bit.ly/1I9AJgc 

### INDIA (INR)
Guide from India.com: http://bit.ly/1UAARqJ 

### INDONESIA (IDR)
Guide from currencyliquidator.com: http://bit.ly/1OwBigN 

### SINGAPORE (SGD)

Official government guide: http://bit.ly/1YhO5OP

MAS guide : http://bit.ly/1UACe8S 
